FR #962: Adding Correction Handling Examples (#1434)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/appendix/correction_handling_examples/correction_handling_examples_overview.md

Reviewer: ### Pluralization Typo in Filename
There is a slight mismatch in the pluralization of your directory name versus the overview markdown file inside it. 
* The folder is singular: `correction_handling_examples/`
* The master `.mdpp` file is singular: `correction_handling_examples.mdpp`
* But the overview file inside is plural: `corrections_handling_examples_overview.md`
* **Fix:** Rename the overview file to `correction_handling_examples_overview.md` (and update the `!INCLUDE` reference in the `.mdpp` file) to keep the naming convention perfectly unified.

Reviewer: Looks correct now!  Resolving.

Reviewer: Note to @shawnalpay to leave suggestion for how to reorg this section.

Reviewer: Done via [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1434/files#r3012606293).  Resolving.

* Corrections to Closed Billing Period
  * Closed-Period Correction Scenarios: Examples of corrections to previously closed billing periods.
* Corrections to Open Billing Period
  * Current Open-Period Correction Scenarios: Examples of corrections to the current open billing period.
  * Previous Open-Period Correction Scenarios: Examples of corrections to previous open billing periods that have not yet been closed.

The example dataset artifacts provided in these scenarios demonstrate three distinct correction styles, each aligned with one of the supported delivery mechanisms:

* Replacement style correction (used with the Overwrite mechanism): Corrections are modeled through updates, additions, or omissions relative to the previous snapshot. This style reflects the latest state of data and does not retain historical correction records unless externally preserved.
* Delta style correction (used with the Append mechanism): Corrections are represented by additive records that increment or decrement selected cost and quantity values. Original records remain unchanged, and reversals are optional. This style offers limited audit transparency.

> * Ledger style correction (used with the Append mechanism): Corrections typically follow a two-step approach: reversal of the original record (if needed), and addition of a corrected record. Reversal is performed by creating a record with opposite cost and quantity values, while all other columns match the original. This style preserves full correction history and supports comprehensive auditability.

Reviewer: @ijurica Here is my stab at a reorg for this section, which better matches some of the 1.4 appendix PRs like #1877 and #2022.  I'm posting it here for readability instead of as a suggestion.  Right-click and choose "copy markdown" if you want to grab it and revise it before committing -- which you'll need to, as I haven't gone through and done a thorough scrub of anchor links.

----

# Correction Handling Examples Overview

This section provides examples of how correction handling may be implemented in alignment with the FOCUS specification. The examples are limited to illustrating correction handling for the Cost and Usage FOCUS dataset, and cover scenarios involving corrections to open and closed billing periods, as well as the various delivery mechanisms and correction styles supported by FOCUS.

The examples that follow are sectioned by Billing Period Status (i.e., open or closed) and Billing Period Category (i.e., current open period, or previous open period, or closed):

| Billing Period Status | Billing Period Category | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Open | Current Open | Examples of corrections to the current, open billing period. |
| Open | Previous Open | Examples of corrections to a previous billing period that has not yet been closed. |
| Closed | Closed | Examples of corrections to a closed billing period. |

Within each of the sections above, the following four correction scenarios are demonstrated:

| Correction Scenario | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Partial Reallocation to Correct Resource** | Correcting misattributed costs between resources. |
| **Late-Arriving Usage** | Accounting for omitted costs and usage incurred in a prior timeframe. |
| **Itemized Cost-Only Corrections** | Reconciling minor cost drift with explicit adjustments per SKU. |
| **Bulk Cost-Only Corrections** | Reconciling minor cost drift using a single, consolidated adjustment. |

The example dataset artifacts provided in these scenarios demonstrate three distinct correction styles, each aligned with one of the supported delivery mechanisms:

| Correction Style | Delivery Mechanism | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Replacement** | Overwrite | Corrections are modeled through updates, additions, or omissions relative to the previous snapshot. This style reflects the latest state of data and does not retain historical correction records unless externally preserved. |
| **Delta** | Append | Corrections are represented by additive records that increment or decrement selected cost and quantity values. Original records remain unchanged, and reversals are optional. This style offers limited audit transparency. |
| **Ledger** | Append | Corrections typically follow a two-step approach: reversal of the original record (if needed), and addition of a corrected record. Reversal is performed by creating a record with opposite cost and quantity values, while all other columns match the original. This style preserves full correction history and supports comprehensive auditability. |

Author: suggestion applied.
@shawnalpay please take a look and let me know if I can resolve the thread. thanks

Reviewer: Looks good -- resolving!

> # Examples: Correction Handling - Cost and Usage Dataset

Reviewer: Must we retain ` - Cost and Usage Dataset` in this title?  Might as well simplify it now, for if/when we add other dataset examples in the future.  Also significantly simplifies our anchor links below, which you will need to revise if you accept this suggestion.

```suggestion
# Examples: Correction Handling
```

Author: I gave this some thought and couldn't decide - to keep or not to ...
I was just waiting for a signal 🙂 
Committing now.

This section provides examples of how correction handling may be implemented in alignment with the FOCUS specification. The examples are limited to illustrating correction handling for the Cost and Usage FOCUS dataset, and cover scenarios involving corrections to open and closed billing periods, as well as the various delivery mechanisms and correction styles supported by FOCUS.

The examples that follow are sectioned by [Billing Period Status](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstatus) (i.e., "Open" or "Closed") and Billing Period Category (i.e., current open period, or previous open period, or closed):

| Billing Period Status | Billing Period Category | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Open | Current Open | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling-costandusagedataset.correctionstoopenbillingperiod.currentopen-periodcorrectionscenarios) of corrections to the current, open billing period. |
| Open | Previous Open | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling-costandusagedataset.correctionstoopenbillingperiod.previousopen-periodcorrectionscenarios) of corrections to a previous billing period that has not yet been closed. |

> | Closed | Closed | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling-costandusagedataset.correctionstoclosedbillingperiod) of corrections to a closed billing period. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Open | Current Open | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling.correctionstoopenbillingperiod.currentopen-periodcorrectionscenarios) of corrections to the current, open billing period. |
| Open | Previous Open | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling.correctionstoopenbillingperiod.previousopen-periodcorrectionscenarios) of corrections to a previous billing period that has not yet been closed. |
| Closed | Closed | [Examples](#appendix.examples:correctionhandling.correctionstoclosedbillingperiod) of corrections to a closed billing period. |
```

Within each of the sections above, the following four correction scenarios are demonstrated:

| Correction Scenario | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Partial Reallocation to Correct Resource** | Correcting misattributed costs between resources. |
| **Late-Arriving Usage** | Accounting for omitted costs and usage incurred in a prior timeframe. |
| **Itemized Cost-Only Corrections** | Reconciling minor cost drift with explicit adjustments per SKU. |
| **Bulk Cost-Only Corrections** | Reconciling minor cost drift using a single, consolidated adjustment. |

> The example dataset artifacts provided in these scenarios demonstrate three distinct correction styles, each aligned with one of the supported delivery mechanisms:

Reviewer: Need anchor links here for `correction styles` and `delivery mechanisms`.  Or would you prefer to wait until we approve #1501 and handle it during consistency review?  If so, please leave a comment to that effect on #1878.

Author: added a [comment (reminder)](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/issues/1878#issuecomment-4165377184) in #1878

resolving.
